See also @uref{http://www.dvdrhelp.com/glossary}.

@table @acronym

@item APS
Access Point Sector

@item CBR
Constant Bit Rate. Used in MPEG-1's.

@item CD
Compact Disc

@item CD-DA
Compact Disc Digital Audio, described in the ``Red Book'' or ICE
908. This commonly referred to as an audio @acronym{CD} and what most
people think of when you play a @acronym{CD} as it was the first to
use the @acronym{CD} medium.

@item CD-ROM
Compact Disc Read Only Memory or ``Yellow Book'' describe in Standards
ISO/IEC 10149. The data stored on it can be either in the form of
audio, computer or video files.

@item CD-ROM Mode 1 and Mode2

The Yellow Book specifies two types of tracks, Mode 1 and Mode 2. Mode
1 is used for computer data and text and has an extra error correction
layer. Mode 2 is for audio and video data and has no extra correction
layer. CD-ROM/XA An expansion of the CD-ROM Mode 2 format that allows
both computer and audio/video to be mixed in the same track.

@item CD XA
CD-ROM EXtended Architecture. A modification to the CD-ROM
specification that defines two new types of sectors.  CD-ROM XA was
developed jointly by Sony, Philips, and Microsoft, and announced in
August 1988. Its specifications were published in an extension to the
Yellow Book.  CD-i, Photo CD, Video CD and CD-EXTRA have all
subsequently been based on CD-ROM XA.

CD-XA defines another way of formatting sectors on a CD-ROM, including
headers in the sectors that describe the type (audio, video, data) and
some additional info (markers, resolution in case of a video or audio
sector, file numbers, etc).

The data written on a CD-XA is consistent with and can be in ISO-9660
file system format and therefore be readable by ISO-9660 file system
translators. But also a CD-I player can also read CD-XA discs even if
its own `Green Book' file system only resembles ISO 9660 and isn't
fully compatible. 

@item CVD
Chaoji VCD or China Video Disc @*
@uref{http://www.dvdrhelp.com/forum/userguides/98177.php}

@item DVD
Digital Versatile Disc  @uref{http://www.dvddemystified.com/dvdfaq.html}

@item DVD-V
@acronym{DVD} for Video.

@item DVD-A
@acronym{DVD} for Audio.

@item Entry Point
A starting point within an MPEG track including the beginning of the
track.  Video CD's can have multiple entry points inside a
track. Logically this corresponds to a ``Chapter'' or ``Scene'' of a
larger uninterruptable unit.

One might think a CD MPEG ``track'' could serve this purpose with a
collection of tracks making up a work or movie. Alas, the CD
specification requires a ``track pregap'' space of 150 sectors before
a track. These often appear as a time gaps when hardware players go
between tracks; this doesn't happen switching between entries in a
track because there in fact is no gap.

Physically on the CD an entry is stored as an INDEX inside a track.

@item FourCC

A four character code that uniquely identifies a data stream
format. Software will look up the FourCC code then look for the codec
associated to the code for that code.  This idea was used in the IFF
multimedia format developed by Electronic Arts for the Amiga in the
early 1980s. This file format was copied by Apple (who called it AIFF)
and Microsoft (RIFF).  @uref{http://www.fourcc.org/fcccodec.htm}

@item FSF
Free Software Foundation, @uref{http://www.fsf.org/}

@item GNU
@acronym{GNU} is not @acronym{UNIX}, @uref{http://www.gnu.org/}

@item LOT
List ID Offset Table.

@item MPEG
Movie Picture Experts Group @uref{http://mpeg.telecomitalialab.com}.
Two sub formats used by Video CD's are MPEG-1 for VCD 1.0, 1.1 and 2.0
and MPEG-2. For SVCD, and HQVCD.

@item NTSC
National Television Standards Committee. The NTSC is responsible for
setting television and video standards in the United.  States

@item OGT
Overlay Graphics & Text. A subtitle format devised by Philips. The
format has subtitle meta-information before an interleaved bitmap of 4
palette entries. Palette color 0 entries can be run-length encoded.

A more detailed description of this format can be found in the
documentation directory of VCDimager.

@item LBA

Logical Block Addressing. Mapped integer numbers from CD Red Book
Addressing MSF.  The starting sector is -150 and ending sector is
449849, which correlates directly to MSF: 00:00:00 to 99:59:74.
Because an LBA is a single number it is often easier to work with in
programming than an MSF.

@item LID
List ID. A unit of playback control navigation inside a PSD. Numbering
starts from 1.

@item LSN

Logical Sector Number. Mapped integer numbers from CD Red Book
Addressing MSF.  The starting sector is 0 and ending sector is 449699,
which correlates to MSF: 00:00:00 to 99:59:74.  Because an LSN is a
single number it is often easier to work with in programming than an
MSF. Because it starts at 0 rather than -150 as is the case of an LBA
it can be represented as an unsigned value.

@item PAL
Phase Alternating Line, the dominant television standard in Europe. 

@item PEM
Program End Marker. 

@item PBC
Play-back Control. 

@item PSD
Play Sequence Descriptor. A section of a Video CD related to playback
control. Also the individual units inside that section. We start
numbering from 0.  See also LID.

@item PVD
Primary Volume Descriptor. A section of a Video CD.

@item RIFF
Resource Interchange File Format. A way to tag multimedia files
developed by Microsoft. Inside a RIFF is a 4-letter character code
(which fits nicely in a 32-bit word) for each type of object called
@acronym{FOURCC}. This idea was taken Electronic Arts which used in
Amigia's @acronym{IFF} (Interchange File Format) and copied by Apple in their 
@acronym{AIFF}.

@item SIF
Source Interchange Format. A video resolution standard.

@item SPI
Segment Play Items.

@item SVCD
Super @acronym{VCD} @uref{http://www.dvdrhelp.com/svcd}

@item VBR
Variable Bit Rate. Used in MPEG-2's

@item Track 

A unit of data of a CD. The size of a track can vary; it can occupy
the entire contents of the CD. Most CD standards however require that
tracks have a 150 frame (or ``2 second'') lead-in gap.

@item VCD
Video @acronym{CD} @uref{http://www.dvdrhelp.com/vcd}

@item XA
See @acronym{CD XA}

@item XML
eXtensible Markup Language, @uref{http://www.w3.org/XML/}.

@item XSVCD
eXtended @acronym{SVCD}, @uref{http://www.dvdrhelp.com/xvcd.htm}.

@item XVCD
eXtended @acronym{VCD}, @uref{http://www.dvdrhelp.com/xvcd.htm}.

@end table
